[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: This
season on "Open Minds,"
I've teamed up
with Freddy Silva,
author and world-renowned expert
on sacred sites, Paola Harris,
investigative journalist
and author in the field
of extraterrestrial-related
phenomena,
local Sardinia guide Rosella
Lodo, and Luigi Muscas,
a leading researcher on
giant bones in Sardinia,
who has discovered evidence
pointing to the connection
between the island of Sardinia
and the ancient culture
of Atlantis.
Their elaborate stone sites,
roughly 7,000 of them,
are sprinkled all over the
island, revealing tombs, bones,
and highly sophisticated
architecture.
It's speculated that
people from Atlantis,
including a giant
race of people,
emigrated to Sardinia with
their great knowledge,
leaving their tombs and
temples, called nuraghe, behind.
With help from a team
of remote viewers led
by Angela Thompson,
local Sardinia
legends, and the writings
of Edgar Cayce and Ruth
Montgomery, we uncover a deeper
understanding of these giants,
their nuraghe, and the
mystery surrounding
their incredible
history on this island.
>> FREDDY SILVA: We're taking
a little bread crumbs to try
and make a wonderful
loaf of bread out of it.
>> REGINA: The message that
there may have been highly
sophisticated cultures before
our current time begs many
questions that we've
been grappling with.
Why did they disappear?
And how many more are there
buried under the sands of time?
[THEME MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Welcome.
You are in for an adventure.
I'm here in Sardinia with
Paola Harris and Freddy Silva.
And even though we're in
this lovely little apartment
in Cagliari, Sardinia, we have
spent the last three days out
in the field.
And we've been examining some
mysteries that none of us
have ever seen before.
I can't wait to get
started on this.
Because one of the subjects that
we covered is that of giants.
It's a subject that has a
big giggle factor around it
right now.
But we're going to take
the giggle factor out
of it by going
out into the field
to the tombs of the giants.
And we're going to do this part
of the story with Paola Harris.
And Paola, for you, it's
the third time here.
For the rest of us, it
was our first time here.
So first of all, let's
launch into Sardinia itself,
and the nature of the
people, and when you first
started coming here how
you experienced Sardinia.
>> PAOLA HARRIS: Well, Sardinia
is a little-known island
because everybody goes
to Sicily or Corsica.
And Sardinia is
right next to Sicily.
But I was invited
to speak about UFOs.
That's how I came to Sardinia.
Rosella, whom you'll
meet, she invited
me to speak on the UFO
phenomenon in these very, very
small villages.
So when they hear
an American comes,
what happens next is everybody
comes out of the woodwork.
They'll either come
to me about sightings
that they've had
over military bases--
but this particular
gentleman came forward
and he said, come to
my farm because I want
to tell you about the giants.
Of course this isn't
my area of study,
but I went anyway, with some
friends and with Rosella.
He had artifacts.
And then he brings out
his father and his uncle,
and they tell me their stories.
And this happened
about 10 years ago.
>> REGINA: I find
this fascinating.
Because you know,
something like this--
first of all, it would be
hard to dig up that story
because people are so
afraid of being made fun of.
It's not the Luigi hasn't
had his share of trouble
and ridicule over
the subject, but it's
something you really don't
even talk about in most
of the Western world.
The subject of
giants is verboten.
And we're going to get
into it and talk about,
even in his journey,
what happened
after discovering the bones of
giants and such in his youth.
But this particular topic is--
I don't know, it's
as bad, if not worse,
than the subject
of UFOs in terms
of any kind of disclosure.
I mean, here we're
in Sardinia, where
it has the tombs of giants--
tomba dei giganti, right?--
all over the island.
And you can go to them.
There are no guardrails.
There's nothing.
They're just sitting
out in nature, alone.
And the people
actually don't seem
to embrace the notion that
there were giants there.
Talk about your
own understanding
of that through the years,
what the common person has
come to believe--
like all of us, with
a lot of conditioning
from the media, and churches,
and everything else--
about this topic.
>> HARRIS: The way of telling
a country's history is not
by reading the authoritative
books of anthropologists.
It's by talking to the
people in the villages.
Because most history, especially
in islands like Sardinia
and other places that are
not really tourist places,
is that this goes through family
from generation to generation.
The real history goes
through families.
So Luigi's family
knew about the giants.
I mean, they knew
about the giants
because there are
bones all over.
They were discovering
them on his property,
in caves, everywhere.
When he was a
child, he saw them.
He saw what he calls
the authorities come
and take these bones away--
huge skulls.
This is what we call
witness testimony, which
is the only work I ever do.
It's a witness is the regular
people of the village,
but of course they're
not allowed to talk.
Their life is made miserable.
They're told by formal
archaeology, do not
talk about this.
And of course they
can ruin your life.
I mean, so Luigi's
taking a risk.
He said he's lost
a lot of friends.
Because he wants to talk,
because he thinks that
this is such an important aspect
of the history of this island.
>> REGINA: And I mean, in that
way, it's akin to Roswell.
After Roswell occurred, then
the governmental agencies,
military, came
around and said, you
won't be talking about this.
And it really frightened
the local people.
And they pretty much
kept their mouths
shut for many, many years.
>> HARRIS: They're afraid--
in this case, this
is anthropology,
this organized institution
where this doesn't fit in.
And where are you
going to fit giants
into the history of
the Mediterranean?
It does fit into the
mythology though.
And it does fit
into oral tradition.
So if you're going to take
everything into consideration
and not take the institution's
point of view only,
and you talk to the townspeople,
you'll get the real truth.
And that's what you do,
and that's what I do.
>> REGINA: Right.
And now you mentioned
a little bit ago,
you did have the opportunity,
quite a few years ago now,
to with Luigi when his father
and his uncle were still alive.
Now, in his book, he
also has the testimony
of other locals,
neighbors and such,
talking about their experiences
with the giant bones when
they were kids and such.
Unfortunately all these lovely
people that we see in the book
have passed away.
So we need to stop
teasing everybody
and go out into the field.
We'll go out, and first we're
going to meet with Luigi.
And we're going to get a
little bit of his life story.
Because as you
alluded to earlier,
for Luigi, the whole
thing with the giants,
personally, started when
he was a pubescent boy
and he was helping with the
family sheep, grazing sheep,
which took him out in the
field for many hours a day.
Let's go talk to Luigi.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
First, Luigi, thank
you so much for letting
us come and talk to you.
Because I know you've had some
harassment and difficulties
because what you share with
us is not necessarily accepted
by a lot of the archaeologists,
and government, and so forth.
The same happens
in America, so I
appreciate that it's a little
risky for you to talk to us.
>>LUIGI MUSCAS:
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>>INTERPRETER: Thank you so much
for coming here, because you're
letting me tell my story.
This has to do with Atlantis.
This has to do with the world.
And I thank you
again for listening.
>> REGINA: The story that has
emerged is an amazing story
about the presence of giants
in Sardinia, and a very,
very ancient culture.
So can you talk about
your personal part of it
as a little boy?
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>>INTERPRETER: It's a
story that's very old,
but I'm going to tell you
from the point of view
of my own family.
When the family
got together, they
would tell stories
about my ancestors
coming from the line of giants.
My relatives had
their first trucks
after the Second World War.
They used to bring grains
into the center of Sardinia.
Once, they found two skeletons
of the giants blocking
one of these old roads.
So they had to take the
grains on their backs.
I grew up with these stories,
and I remember about 70%
of what I was told
as a little boy.
From two years old,
I was used to this.
But now that I'm 57,
I know the places
where they took the
skeletons, where they got
the skeletons of the giants.
It's normal to me.
>> REGINA: So what was
interesting is he said that he
found some of these bones in
an area that was abandoned.
He calls it the Lost City, and
the tomb of the Atlantian king.
Because he believes that his
people came from Atlantis,
and that Sardinia is the
remnant of Atlantis, right?
>> HARRIS: Yes, he's
very proud of that.
He talks about Atlantis.
But not only him, his whole
family have believed that.
So we go back generations here.
So this is what makes me wonder.
Because you know, if you
take witness testimony,
it's not just the modern one.
If your whole family--
your great-grandfather,
your great-great-grandfather--
is talking about this,
there is a little trace
of truth coming out
that goes through
family stories.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
And he's in good company.
Because Plato,
Aristotle, Herodotus,
all believed that
Sardinia was Atlantis,
is a remnant of
what was Atlantis.
And they believed that these
Atlantian people existed.
So they're just carrying
on the same story.
>> HARRIS: They are.
But we have artifacts,
and we have tombs.
And there's so many
nuraghe, and there's
so many really important
monuments, and some of them
are buried under mounds of
grass and are not excavated yet.
>> REGINA: Yeah, most of them
haven't even been discovered.
This is a very
undiscovered land.
And when we're talking about
those sites, which we're
going to get to
in our next show,
there are 20,000
or 30,000 of them,
they think, that
are identifiable,
and they don't even know how
many more under the land.
Why would anyone need to
build that many, basically,
ritualistic, sophisticated
sites, right,
unless something pretty
interesting is going on?
So we're going to go
back out with Luigi.
Because he took us
up to the Lost City,
which basically is
rubble and plants.
But you can see the
remnants of the old wall.
And the place that he's
going to show us here
is the remnant of what
was a giant's tomb.
And it'll make more sense as
we go into the future episodes
and we look at more of
these tombs of giants,
the shape and the length
he's talking about.
So let's go back
out in the field,
then, with Luigi, when he took
us up on top of the Lost City.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>>INTERPRETER: My
most direct experience
I can tell you about was in
the Lost City, in the tomb
that I call The First
King of Atlantis.
In 1972, I was bringing
some sheep to the pasture.
There was a big storm,
and I was a little kid,
and I didn't have
a coat or anything.
So I looked around for
a place for shelter.
I tried to go under a
tree, but that didn't work.
So I saw this kind
of a hole of a cave.
So I went in there.
In this cave, I saw this mummy
of a giant, and I looked at it.
I didn't get scared, I
just wanted to look at it
and be there.
Here was the
Atlantian king's tomb.
>> REGINA: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> REGINA: Inside.
>> REGINA:
[SPEAKING ITALIAN] OK.
So this is where you came in?
>>INTERPRETER: He
was laying here.
Here was the head, and
there at that stone
was the feet, where Rosella is.
>> REGINA: OK, and some of
the stones have fallen down?
>>MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>>INTERPRETER: Yes, yes, the
little kids destroyed them.
>> ROSELLA LODO:
The children have--
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> REGINA: Destroyed.
>>LODO: Destroyed.
>> REGINA: The children have
destroyed and played with
the stones.
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> INTERPRETER: So the storm
passed, and I came out,
and I went to talk
to my grandfather,
and I told him all about it.
My grandfather put me on a
white horse, and I was so happy.
He took me to the
Lost City, and he
told me the true story
of what happened there.
He told me the whole
story of Atlantis--
people, generations,
word of mouth.
Even though they
couldn't read or write,
they told the story through
generation and generation.
And I was fascinated
by all of this.
This used to be a pyramid.
It was like Chichen Itza.
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> INTERPRETER: Here is
where the pyramid crumbled,
part of Atlantis
that was destroyed.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It was like this.
All the stones down there
are filled with quartz.
Now I'll show you the
base of the pyramid.
This is the base of the pyramid.
It's covered in quartz, see?
Here, all these stones
have quartz, all of them,
just like Cheops Egypt.
All the stones are
made of quartz,
from the first to the last,
because they fell that way.
They were on top.
Look at these.
These have been worn away here.
All of these stones
have been broken.
>> REGINA: OK, so that kind of
looks like rubble and ruins.
But you can see the foundation
that was initially there.
And you said there were
pyramids all around,
and that actually the government
knocked those smaller pyramids
down.
Some of them just looked like
kind of cone-shaped mountains
that are now covered over in
vegetation, and some of them
have nuraghe on top of them.
So it's kind of hard
to tell, historically,
what actually went on.
Because we have civilization
after civilization
piled on top of each
other throughout the eons.
So here we're now looking at the
subject, then, of the giants.
Let's go in a little
more specifically.
As Luigi and I are
sitting and talking,
all these little stone
figures surrounding us.
And you can explain
that a little bit,
because Luigi is an artist.
>> HARRIS: Yeah, he's an artist.
And he's kind of obsessed
with what he's seen.
Because what he has
carved in stone--
and when you see all these
figures, and some of them
are really
bizarre-looking-- it' what
he saw inside the giant tombs.
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> INTERPRETER: I took my
friends back to the cave
to show them the giant mummy.
The color of the skin
on the mummy was gray,
and we would play with
the hands and the legs.
After lunch, my friend and I
would go there and take naps.
We would sleep on either
side of the mummy.
We were used to these
stories from childhood.
>> REGINA: So when you were
playing with these giants,
and their hands, and so
forth, did they appear to be
anatomically the same as
human beings are today,
the same number of
digits, or anything extra,
or the same as us?
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> INTERPRETER: Most of the
skeletons I would find looked
like us.
But I also found anthropomorphic
skeletons, including
the body of a human and the
head of an animal with one,
and some with two horns.
>> REGINA: And from historical
documents through ancient
lineages, it does talk about
these types of creatures that
existed in Atlantis.
>> INTERPRETER: Our stories
say that these people came from
the stars.
And when they came, they taught
us everything in technology.
We were here, but we
were small people.
We were taught that
they came to this island
to construct the first
place in Atlantis.
We call them the
people from the stars.
>> HARRIS: The little kids,
or the boys, way back when--
I think in the '60s, he said--
would go into these caves
and see these figures.
They would see these
representations.
They would see all of this,
and also they would see bones.
It was normal for them.
And if they talked about
it, then what would happen
is the authorities would
come and empty the cave.
>> REGINA: Which they did.
>> HARRIS: Which they did.
And he watched
the whole process.
So did the other
people in the town.
Of course they're very good.
They didn't talk about it.
I think it's called
hidden archaeology.
But in his house--
he's so obsessed, he
has made these clay
figures, he's painted them,
he's sculpted them.
And also he said he
remembers another life there.
>> REGINA: That was interesting.
>> HARRIS: That was interesting.
>> REGINA: I mean, he is.
It's almost as
obsessive as in "Close
Encounters of the
Third Kind," he
can't stop building
this mound, right?
And Luigi-- if you had a
chance to see the whole studio,
it's kind of amazing.
There are paintings, there
are little sculptures,
there are big sculptures,
there are stone carvings.
He has this stuff all around
him, depicting these things.
I mean, he's obsessed
on many levels.
And part of it,
when he was younger,
he was taken down into
an area that was low
and toward the sea, and he got
this horrible feeling, he said.
>> HARRIS: And this is when
he started talking about
remembering that some kind
of deluge put the land under
water.
And that would
explain an awful lot.
>> REGINA: And let's let him
explain what happened when he
went there.
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> INTERPRETER: We believe this
civilization was taken away
in one day and one
night, 12,000 years ago.
We believe it was the heating
of the air, the meteorites,
the earthquakes, and then
there came a big tsunami
that took everything away.
>> REGINA: There seems to be
a discrepancy in when that
happened with some
of the researchers.
But it could have happened
multiple times as well.
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> INTERPRETER: I live this part
of reality when I go to that
part of the island.
I remember.
When I was a little
kid, I did not
want to go to that pasture
with my grandfather.
Because I could still
see that wave coming.
I still have memories of it.
He would comfort me, and tell
me that it already happened,
it happened in the past.
>> HARRIS: Luigi has done
his best to have this stuff
validated by modern science.
So in his book, you
have proof of this
by the photo of the mandible,
plus the analysis done
by the University of Padua,
in Italian and in English.
But one of the things--
>> REGINA: And this was their
archaeological department.
>> HARRIS: This is the
But one of the things
that interest me
as a researcher who works
with hidden mysteries
is they asked him to write
it so tiny in this book--
and you see, it's tiny,
you can hardly read that.
That was the only way
he could publish it.
>> REGINA: The stipulation was
that if he put it in-- this is
like a 1 or 2 font at
the back of the book,
for anyone who cares to look.
It was kind of like,
we'll let you do it,
but you gotta bury it.
But basically what
it came back with
was the dimensions
of the jawbone
that we see in
this picture here.
And there are other body
parts that they examined
the dimensions of those.
And also they talked about the
blood type of the individual,
of the giant, which was an O
type, which was Rh-negative.
Luigi said, that's my family's
blood type, that's my blood
type, those are our ancestors.
>> HARRIS: It's very
rare, that blood type.
>> REGINA: It is very rare.
>> HARRIS: Very rare.
>> REGINA: And there are
stories within the community
of alternative
archaeology and research,
and those who really dig a
little deeper into the whole
alien story, that Rh-negative
is often associated with alien
species.
So that's just a little aside.
But he says, no, it's
here in the book,
it came out in the lab
reports, that's my family,
and that's my bloodline.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
These are-- I was down that this
one I have is not a giant, just
a very big person, right?
>> MUSCAS: Sí.
>> REGINA: Grande persona.
>> MUSCAS: Here is the giant.
>> REGINA: These are giant.
>> MUSCAS: Vertebra.
>> REGINA: Vertebra.
>> MUSCAS: Molare.
>> REGINA: Molar.
>> MUSCAS: Molar.
>> REGINA: OK.
So look at this.
Let's look at that.
Well, just like in the dental
charts on our dental offices,
only five, 10 times larger.
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> REGINA: And this is
from a larger person--
a person, but a larger
person than normal.
And this is from a giant.
>> MUSCAS: Normale, no.
>> REGINA: Normal.
It's a little
larger than normal.
Yeah, so this-- wow.
And where did you find this?
This was back at the cave
where the giant was originally,
is that where you found this?
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> INTERPRETER:
In the Lost City.
>> REGINA: In the Lost City.
And then this is a vertebra.
>> INTERPRETER: This
is another vertebrae,
and this is the radial bone.
>> REGINA: Oh, the radial bone.
Ulna and radius.
The radial, yeah.
Wow.
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> INTERPRETER: This is thick.
Our radial bones are very thin.
>> REGINA: Yeah, in a human,
they're quite a bit smaller,
in normal-sized human.
OK, this is interesting.
Now, which of the bones
did you have the DNA--
>> MUSCAS: The DNA.
>> REGINA: From this
one-- in the book.
In the libro.
>> MUSCAS: Sí.
>> INTERPRETER: The DNA
results are in this book.
>> REGINA: Was that this bone?
>> MUSCAS: Radial.
>> REGINA: Oh, the radial bone.
>> INTERPRETER: This
is the mandible.
>> REGINA: Yep,
mandible bone, yeah.
>> MUSCAS: Mandible.
>> INTERPRETER: 13.5
centimeters, 13.5 high.
>> REGINA: Yeah, massive.
>> INTERPRETER:
Height, 5.3 inches.
The mandible piece-- look,
it is 35 centimeters wide,
like this, 13.7 inches.
>> REGINA: And this is giving--
this is the dimensions from
that-- this is from the
Institute of Anthropology
at the University of Padova.
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> INTERPRETER: They
examined three skeletons.
>> REGINA: Three skeletons.
>> MUSCAS: Sí.
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> REGINA: And various parts.
And they're all been
analyzed by the university.
>> INTERPRETER: The femur.
>> REGINA: Femore, yes.
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> INTERPRETER: The femur alone
is 1 meter, 11 centimeters.
>> REGINA: Wow.
>> INTERPRETER: 3.6 feet.
OK, and so that was
the femoral bone.
>> INTERPRETER: This
is the biggest femur.
There's another that is 1 meter,
26 centimeters, like this.
>> REGINA: So how
tall is the person.
>> INTERPRETER: 4 meters,
80 centimeters tall.
>> REGINA: 4 and 1/2 meters?
4 and 1/2 meters.
So we're looking at about
15 feet tall, roughly.
15 feet.
And so when you were a little
boy, and you were in the cave,
OK, the tomb, the giant
was quattro meters?
Yeah?
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> INTERPRETER: 4 meters
and 24 centimeters.
>> REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>> INTERPRETER: 13.9 feet tall.
>> REGINA: He was bigger--
like from here to the door.
>> INTERPRETER: This is
the most important proof--
three skeletons analyzed in
the Institute of Anthropology
in Padova, 1981, with the
names of the actual professors.
Everything is here.
>> REGINA: Well, this is good.
People will find this
very, very interesting.
Yeah?
>> MUSCAS: Thank you.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
No, thank you.
He was talking about a
tooth, and some people
said, no, that's not a human
tooth, that's a cow tooth.
It's not a giant tooth.
But he also shows,
in this image,
the mandibular structure
of a human being.
He described it like this,
about 33 centimeters, this jaw.
He says it's the tooth
from someone that big.
>> HARRIS: But he found
others-- this is it.
That isn't the only
tooth he found.
He had many of those teeth.
And then we also saw
another little jaw
that's bigger than a human jaw.
So these are people that
aren't going looking for them.
They're there, right
there in their lands.
>> REGINA: And there's another
tooth that's a human tooth.
It's much, much smaller.
So it would have been from
a person larger than us--
a tall person, but not as
large as what he's saying they
were seeing in the past in
terms of these massive, gigantic
frames.
>> HARRIS: Yeah, massive
skulls, massive teeth.
And then he had talked
about, 10 years ago,
the femur that I saw.
And then I said,
well, where is that?
Can we see that?
He said, they came to
take it to carbon-date it.
He said, I had to
give it to them.
But they never returned it.
>> REGINA: But you
saw it in his shop.
>> HARRIS: Oh, yeah, because
he had many more bones.
And then while I was
there, another car
drove up with some people.
And they said, we
want to show you--
they opened up their trunk.
And my God, I've never
seen bones so big.
And they said, we found these.
Because they found out I was
there, you know, the American.
And they thought, this story
is big, let's go show her.
And they opened up the trunk,
and I couldn't believe it.
>> REGINA: Did you ever think
that people were maybe trying
to take advantage
of the Americana?
>> HARRIS: No.
Why would they?
Because this is farm land.
This is way out they had to
drive away far away to do this.
I think there is a
part of human beings
that want to tell the truth.
And they're very
proud of the island.
>> REGINA: And they
want their story told.
>> HARRIS: And they
And they're very proud.
They're very nationalistic
of their island.
So what you have to look at is
the value of witness testimony.
>> REGINA: And so
after that he said,
I'm going to take you to a
place that is very typical.
And it's labeled
tomb of the giants--
a very typical
tomb of the giants.
We were going to see
more in subsequent days.
But this is the
first one we saw.
It was really cool.
So Luigi, this is outside
of the little town of Siddi.
>> MUSCAS: Siddi.
>> REGINA: Siddi.
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> REGINA:
[SPEAKING ITALIAN] Yes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So the head-- the giganti--
>> MUSCAS: Sí, giganti.
>> INTERPRETER: The
giant would lay here,
and the soul would go
through the door over there.
>> REGINA: Yes.
Beautiful stonework.
Nicely fitted.
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> INTERPRETER: These walls,
they would precisely cut them,
and they would put them
together without cement.
>> REGINA: This is amazing.
And of course, massive stones
put together with no cement.
And so this is
where the giants--
where they came after the
death, with the head down here,
the feet at that
end, and the spirit
would go out through their
feet, through the other end.
>> MUSCAS: Sí.
>> REGINA: Yes.
And then their body would
be removed and then buried.
Yeah.
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> INTERPRETER:
When the giant died,
they would put them in the
tomb through that hole there.
And depending on how
big the giant was,
they would put either
one, two, or three.
The next night,
they would come back
to do the soul passage,
where the soul would
go through the hole,
straight to heaven.
>> REGINA: Do you know--
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> REGINA: One day and one
night they were in here.
>> MUSCAS: Two.
>> REGINA: Two days.
OK.
Well, this is
pretty spectacular.
We don't know when this
was built, how old--
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> REGINA: No.
Who knows?
No one knows.
>> INTERPRETER: It could be
100,000 years or 500,000 years.
These people built structures
all over the world, not just
this site.
Nobody knows.
>> REGINA: OK, so
could be over 5,000--
who knows how many years.
Yeah.
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> REGINA: Yeah,
OK, no one knows.
Very good.
>> MUSCAS: [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> INTERPRETER: It's too
hard to date these stones.
These stones are very old.
The stones could be more
than 10 million years old.
Everywhere you go, you can find
five or six of these sites.
These sites were to
perform these rituals.
>> REGINA: Yes, because
they had a higher spiritual
understanding.
When Freddie jumped
into the story--
and we're going to be seeing
a lot of Freddie in our next
episode, right--
when Freddie jumped
into the story,
he said, I believe they weren't
just for people who had died--
for the giants who had died.
He believes they're
also a chamber
for a ritualized experience.
So let's go to
Freddie's take on it.
>> SILVA: If you can go back
thousands of years in time,
and just use your
imagination a little bit,
this was actually
covered with earth,
and it was alternating layers of
organic and inorganic material.
And again, you got to
ask these questions--
why would anyone go
through that trouble
to-- if you're going to
bury someone, bury them.
Just cover the whole thing
with earth, get a few rocks,
and be done with it.
But no, everything is
covered with alternate layers
of organic and
inorganic material.
And we've done
studies whereby we've
taken frequencies of the
energy outside of the mounds
compared to the energy
inside the mound.
The two are very
different things.
So there's--
>> REGINA: Especially
in circular areas.
>> SILVA: Exactly.
>> REGINA: Which, I mean,
even Michael Tellinger had
the readings done inside and
outside of the similar stone
structures in South Africa.
Very high readings,
energetically and acoustically,
from the inside.
>> SILVA: And why would a
dead person require that?
>> REGINA: Right.
>> SILVA: Right.
So this comes back
to the other point.
If they left no instructions--
that's the fun part of this
job--
we're taking little
breadcrumbs and trying
to make a wonderful
loaf of bread out of it.
So the first thing I tend to do
is, well, what's it looking at?
Because everything-- every
temple on the face of the earth
can usually be figured out--
it's date of
construction can usually
be figured out by its
alignments to a background star.
>> REGINA: So what is this
alignment we're looking at?
>> SILVA: Well, here, we
have three potential hits.
Again, they left
no instructions,
so let's start with
the most basic--
equinox sunrise, winter
solstice sunrise.
Those are two classic ones.
The moon definitely doesn't
factor into this one at all.
We now have the ability
to backtrack in time.
And if you were standing
here, in 8500 BC,
you would get a
perfect alignment
with the equinox sunrise.
And an hour before
that, you'd see
Venus rising just before it.
>> REGINA: Aha.
>> SILVA: And you see this again
and again around the world.
And any time you see
that kind of chamber,
that's usually a place that
was used for initiation.
>> REGINA: And what I find
interesting about that is,
then, we were talking about--
and I say the word, cults,
very loosely--
but groups of individuals
that had knowledge
that were aligned
with the sun, which
is, in the classic
hermetic sense,
the shining ones with
the advanced knowledge
would be the ones more prone
to aligning their structures
toward the sun, rather than
the moon cults, for example.
>> SILVA: Exactly, exactly.
And Venus rising before
the equinox sunrise
was always the mark
of the risen initiate.
Someone who had gone
into a special place,
like this, they would have
gone in because-- well,
the frequencies are here.
They're different on the inside.
They would have been the
ones to become much more,
I want to say, tempered by the
frequencies inside the chamber.
Because they would have actually
been beneficial to them.
And we know that these
frequencies actually
align with the human body
in a way that drives down
your state of thinking to a
place where it's not thinking.
>> REGINA: Going in two more
alpha state or even a delta
state of consciousness.
So you're saying that
this is positioned
in really critical ley line--
>> SILVA: Oh, undoubtedly.
>> REGINA: --matrices.
>> SILVA: Every single sacred
sight on the face of the earth
is aligned exactly where the
earth's telluric currents
happen to be.
Whether they were
manipulated there,
or whether there were
already there to begin with,
that's another story.
That's another situation.
But certainly they mark
where the X marks the spot.
So and anybody who's sensitive
and can't afford $20,000
pieces of equipment will
actually pick up the stuff.
And a $20,000 piece of
equipment will do it, too.
It's just a lot cheaper if you
just sit here and actually get
a sense that there's something
unusual about this place.
>> REGINA: So chicken or egg--
you're saying that
the shaman of the day,
or the priests of
the day, understood
that this had a particular
lay line pattern here
that was beneficial
for building this?
Or you're saying, by
evidence that it's built,
we know that the
ley lines are here?
>> SILVA: Both.
>> REGINA: Both.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> SILVA: So they used to
get people who are actually
intuitive.
They would sense
the energy lines.
And then they would
call in someone.
And it actually became called
the augurs, where we get
the term, inauguration, from.
They would inaugurate the site
by marking the specific points
along the land where
this invisible--
these energy lines cross so
that the builders-- the stone
builders could say, OK,
we have to now build
the site aligned to this
specific alignment using
this specific type of stone.
In this case, it's
very old sandstone.
And basically align it
to the exact position
of the invisible energy current.
So you're giving shape
to an invisible force,
which a very expensive piece
of machinery will detect.
>> REGINA: So we're saying--
at least from what they
said outside on the placard,
this is roughly 5,000 years old.
You're seeing more
so-- you're saying
maybe 8,000, 9,000 years.
>> SILVA: The original
hit that I'm getting,
if you match the
sky-ground relationship,
8,500 BC to the equinox sunrise.
>> REGINA: So this would have
been 1,000 years or so after
the deluge, in the
rebuilding of the cultures.
>> SILVA: Exactly.
But there's another
point to the story here.
Because if the-- the Earth
moves relative to its background
of stars, every
few hundred years.
So one degree every 72 years.
Everything in the background
to move ever so slightly.
The alignments
goes slightly off.
So the next time
you get a major hit
is the winter solstice
sunrise in 3700 BC.
Still quite old,
still pretty much
where the archaeologists
were saying,
yes, this kind of fits
into the Neolithic pattern.
But there's no
evidence behind it.
Because you can't date stone.
You can only date the
actual soil around it.
But that only tells us when the
site came out of commission.
[RAIN FALLING]
OK.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> SILVA: So this is pretty
much where the beginning--
the edge of the mound
would have been.
You can still see the
stones in the ground
that would have formed the
edge of the passage mound.
And then it would have
circled the round like a tube.
It would have probably
been about yea high.
Of course I'm
pretty tall myself.
And then it used to be
covered with other stones.
So it would have been a
perfect passage mound.
And all of this
that you see here
would have been where
the earth used to be.
It's now filled in,
the actual hole.
So it would have been
quite deep as well.
But again, you'd
have to crawl in.
Even for tall people,
you've had to crawl in,
in a state of humility.
That's the whole
point of this thing.
In the King's Chamber in the
Great Pyramid, same thing.
>> REGINA: Yes, yes.
>> SILVA: Big building, you
got all the space you want,
what are you going to do?
You're going to make a nice
little hole for someone
to crawl in.
The purpose is that you
crawl in, you become humble.
And then you come back
into the big room,
and there you are in the--
essentially the body of God,
if you want to call it that.
>> REGINA: Metaphorically,
it can mean a lot of things,
birth of all kinds.
>> SILVA: Exactly.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SILVA: We're now inside what
used to be the passage mound.
So this would have been
covered with big stones, which
are now on the front.
So the archaeologists must
have dismembered this.
They took the stones out,
they dug around in here,
and they left the stones there.
Not very nice of them.
So in here, there's
the hole again.
This is where the light of
the rising sun of the equinox
would have come
right through here,
created a beautiful
shaft of light.
And it gives you a
wonderful perspective
on what it would have
felt like to have
been inside this chamber.
And usually if you look at
the story around the world,
it's the same story
again and again.
People used to come in
here for up to three days.
They were given the mild
narcotic, like a poison.
And they would spend a
nice quiet night in here.
And they would
literally leave the body
in an induced
near-death experience.
That's why they thought that
these places were tombs.
Except they were
expected to come
back out alive at some
point, which they did.
Three days later,
they'd reemerge,
and the first thing
they'd see would
be Venus rising
before the Equinox,
the mark of the risen initiate.
And you hear this story
all around the world.
If a South American
person was here right now,
they'd say, absolutely,
we've got the same thing
at Lake Titicaca.
An Egyptian would say
exactly the same thing.
And again, alignment tells
us so much about what
was going on, not just in terms
of the relationship of the site
to the actual stars,
but also its purpose.
So if this was
facing the northeast,
it would have been used for a
completely different function
altogether.
So the alignment,
in terms of ritual,
is very, very important.
>> REGINA: It's interesting,
just looking at the proportions
of the remnants here,
the large stones,
this is approximately the
same length as the tomb
of the giants that
we were in yesterday.
How many meters would you
say from those far stones
to the primary stone?
>> SILVA: Ooh, you're
using meters now.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Well, I shouldn't do that.
Yards, OK, same thing.
>> SILVA: [CHUCKLES]
In megalithic yards--
>> REGINA: No, it looks like
it's about the same 20-some
feet.
Very similar in proportion
is what I'm saying.
>> SILVA: It's about 30 feet.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> SILVA: Yeah, it's about
30 feet, quite a big one.
And you can still see
the outline a little bit,
of where the earth used to be.
>> REGINA: That's
what I'm saying.
I'm just looking
at it and seeing
if there's any correlation
between this, as we go along,
and other giant tombs.
>> SILVA: And they're ever so
slightly different as well.
And I also get the sense--
I guess we don't
know exactly what
was going on at the
front with the two horns.
Because from above, it looks
like the horns of a bull.
Now if I was looking
at that symbolically,
I would say that would
refer to the Age of Taurus.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> SILVA: 4000 BC to 2000 BC.
Because they would
actually design things
according to the age
in which they were in.
So in Egypt, if you look
at the Avenues of the Rams,
that was the Age of the Ram.
So you know that they're
between 2000 BC and 0 BC.
So here the site may
have been re-adapted.
This may not have been
the original design.
It may just be in
the natural standing
stone, the actual passage
mound, like you have in Karnak,
like you have in Britain.
And then as the
ages went by, they
may have added that to
symbolize the age that they just
basically went into.
>> REGINA: There's other bull
iconography in the museum
in Cagliari, too.
>> SILVA: Yeah.
>> REGINA: We saw a
couple pics this morning.
Interesting.
Yeah, makes sense.
Both Freddie and Luigi say
this is a journey back home,
out to the cosmos.
They both said, as the spirit--
or anima, as Luigi called it--
leaves, it goes back
out to the stars
where the beings came from.
Freddie is saying the
same thing in his,
although he's saying that
it was a resurrection
ritual, to be able to loosen
from the material world
and go back into spirit.
>> HARRIS: Luigi believes these
people come from the stars,
which is really interesting.
Because he calls
them giganti dalle
stelle, which means the
giants from the stars.
And Freddie believes
the same thing, the yanu
who came from the stars.
And it all goes back to
a particular star system.
OK, Paola, thank you so much.
This was a lot of fun.
We're going to be seeing more
of you in part number three,
which is going to be fabulous.
We're kind of saving,
in my opinion,
the best for last in our
last show of this series.
But meanwhile, we're going
to be meeting with Freddie
at the nuraghe, going around
to all these nuraghe sites
together.
And these-- they're being
dated by the academic world
here to be in the Bronze Age,
around 4,000 years old roughly.
Freddie is saying, not
according to his measurements.
It's an entirely
different story.
And that's where we get into
the story of archaeoastronomy
and these ancient sites.
So a lot more to come.
Stunning visuals as we traveled
to the north of Sardinia
to look at the ancient nuraghe.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]